HDFS in Depth slide

-Inode

-Ntwork Topology
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYpHKDWL1Mo

the file:  is a ist of:
ip-adrress rack
192...     01

Read Path  p9/14:

The file has 4 blocks eah replicated in 3 nodes 
When a client wants to open foo.txt, the namenode opens a data input-stream
which contains the locations of the blocks ordered by the proximity of the replicas locations: block1, hosts:...

As soon as the client gets the response 2:data from the datanode of block1, it will ask for the 2nd block from the open stream the namenode.

Authentication checks:

is the user esamer able to read the file? yes because owner of file is esamer
Also checks group and Do i have the latest block location?
THe namenode checks the locations of blocks with network topology and also sorts based on which datanodes are less occupied.
Acl: access control list is on the metadata on namenode
From hdfs we can enable acl and manage users and group permissions

Write Path

Client asks for permission from Namenode
Then it checks if the file already exists in the specified and stops if yes.
IF no it can ask a datanode (the datanode can have hadoop client libraries and can also act as client) for writing the file.
Then the first datanode must write the block to the second datanode and the second to the third.
Then an acknoledgemt is send fom the third to the second to the the first an back to client.
At the end the data queue should be empty and the ack queue also complete.

Failure when Writing

If there is a failure the data quue does not delete the num of the datanode that the failure ocured.
It sends a message to the namenode that there is a corupt file there and that it should be deleted at some point.
Then we try from start with a ne pipeline: ex. pipeline 2 so that we might get a successful write.
When we finish sucessfully the client sends close foo.txt to namenode.

If we write a file and another user wants to read it what will happen?
Will he able to fread the file?

Only the blocks that are written and an ack is send back for them, can be read by the second user because the namenode has the location for these datanodes.

For every block the namenode gives 3 datanodes. to the client.
The client has ack and data queue.

If the min replication factor is 1 the write will still be successful if ine block write is successful.


FileSystem Metadata: p 7/24

Namenode has a Write Ahead Log service and uses edit file for that.
The edits log which has modifictions of files is merged to fsimage periodically.

HDFS HA

The datanodes send heartbeat to both namenodes.
The edit file is written in a shared location(nfs, quorom nodes)
Zookeeper manages which namenode is active. if the active is down the stanby becomes active.
Zookeper kills namenode if it has written somth  only on one journal and not on all 3.

Note: Combination of HA and Federation
We can have 2 active namnodes and each can have a stanby.







